Draft members service doc (#73)
trisacrypto/trisa: docs/content/gds/members.en.md

---
title: "Accessing Members"
date: 2022-01-03T14:02:37-05:00
lastmod: 2022-01-03T14:02:37-05:00
description: "Accessing Other TRISA Members"
weight: 70
---

> The `TRISAMembers` service is an experimental service that provides extra access to the directory service for verified TRISA members. Only members of the TRISA network (e.g. members who have been issued valid identity certificates) can access other members of the network using this service. *Note: Once validated, this service will be moved into the official TRISA specification.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `TRISAMembers` service is an experimental service that provides extra, secure access to the directory service for verified TRISA members. Only members of the TRISA network (e.g. members who have been issued valid identity certificates) can access detailed directory service data about the network using this service. *Note: Once validated, this service will be moved into the official TRISA specification.*
```

> ## The `TRISAMembers` Service
> 
> This section describes the protocol buffers for the `TRISAMembers` endpoint, which can be found [here](https://github.com/trisacrypto/directory/blob/main/proto/gds/members/v1alpha1/members.proto). This file can be compiled into the language of your choice ([example for Go](https://github.com/trisacrypto/directory/tree/main/pkg/gds/members/v1alpha1)). *Note: You will need to download and install the protocol buffer compiler if you have not already.*
> 
> The `TRISAMembers` service expects as input a `ListRequest` and returns a `ListReply`.
> 
> ```proto
> service TRISAMembers {
>     // List all verified VASP members in the Directory Service.
>     rpc List(ListRequest) returns (ListReply) {};
> }
> ```
> 
> ### `ListRequest`

Reviewer: ````suggestion
## The `TRISAMembers` Service

This section describes the protocol buffers for the `TRISAMembers` endpoint, which can be found [here](https://github.com/trisacrypto/directory/blob/main/proto/gds/members/v1alpha1/members.proto). This file can be compiled into the language of your choice ([example for Go](https://github.com/trisacrypto/directory/tree/main/pkg/gds/members/v1alpha1)). *Note: You will need to download and install the protocol buffer compiler if you have not already.*

Currently, the `TRISAMembers` service is comprised of only a single RPC - the `List` RPC. Other experimental, secure RPCs may be made available in the future.

```proto
service TRISAMembers {
    // List all verified VASP members in the Directory Service.
    rpc List(ListRequest) returns (ListReply) {};
}
```

## Listing Verified Members

The `List` RPC returns a paginated list of all _verified_ TRISA members to facilitate TRISA peer lookups. The RPC expects as input a `ListRequest` and returns a `ListReply`.

### `ListRequest`
````

The `vasps` are a list of VASPs (see definition of `VASPMember` below), and the `next_page_token`, if specified, is notification that another page of results exists.

```proto
message ListReply {
    repeated VASPMember vasps = 1;
    string next_page_token = 2;
}
```

### `VASPMember`

A `VASPMember` contains enough information to facilitate peer-to-peer exchanges or more detailed lookups against the Directory Service. The `ListReply` will contain a list of none, one, or multiple `VASPMembers`.

```proto
message VASPMember {
    // The uniquely identifying components of the VASP in the directory service
    string id = 1;
    string registered_directory = 2;
    string common_name = 3;

    // Address to connect to the remote VASP on to perform a TRISA request
    string endpoint = 4;

    // Extra details used to facilitate searches and matching
    string name = 5;
    string website = 6;
    string country = 7;
    trisa.gds.models.v1beta1.BusinessCategory business_category = 8;
    repeated string vasp_categories = 9;
    string verified_on = 10;
}
```

> ## Connecting with mTLS

Reviewer: Great section!

For example, if you were using Golang to connect to the Global Directory Service, you would use the [`tls`](https://pkg.go.dev/crypto/tls), [`x509`](https://pkg.go.dev/crypto/x509), and [`credentials`](https://pkg.go.dev/google.golang.org/grpc/credentials) libraries to load your TRISA identity certificates from their secure location on your computer and construct TLS credentials to mutually validate the connection with the server. Finally you would use the compiled members protocol buffer code to create a members client; the protocol buffer definitions are described more fully earlier in this page.

```golang
import (
    "crypto/tls"
    "crypto/x509"

    members "github.com/trisacrypto/directory/pkg/gds/members/v1alpha1"
    "google.golang.org/grpc/credentials"
)

func (m *MyProfile) Connect() (_ members.TRISAMembersClient, err error){
    config := &tls.Config{

> 		Certificates: []tls.Certificate{m.Cert}, // m.Cert is your TRISA certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		Certificates: []tls.Certificate{m.Cert}, // m.Cert is your TRISA certificate parsed into a *x509.Certificate
```

		MinVersion:   tls.VersionTLS12,
		CurvePreferences: []tls.CurveID{
			tls.CurveP521,
			tls.CurveP384,
			tls.CurveP256,
		},
		PreferServerCipherSuites: true,
		CipherSuites: []uint16{
			tls.TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384,
			tls.TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256,
			tls.TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384,
			tls.TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256,
		},
		ClientAuth: tls.RequireAndVerifyClientCert, // this will ensure an mTLS connection

> 		ClientCAs:  m.Pool, // m.Pool is a *x509.CertPool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		ClientCAs:  m.Pool, // m.Pool is a *x509.CertPool that must contain the RA and IA public certs from your TRISA certificate chain
```
